We finished off the last example showing you that if we ran Maven
without a project we would get a build failure.
Let's show you one more command before we dive into building our project.
If I type mvn ‑version and hit Enter I'll get the printout
of the Maven version that I'm using, its location,
the Java version that I'm using.
This is just a good,
quick check for you to see exactly what your configuration is.
Now let's go ahead and create that project to get
our application up and running.
I'm using Spring STS.
You can use Spring, you can use Eclipse, you can use IntelliJ.
You can honestly just use Notepad for this example if you want.
I like Spring STS so I've gone ahead and used it.
And when I first launch it it's going to ask me for a workspace.
So I've gone ahead and created a directory of
C:\dev\workspace. I want to go ahead and launch our IDE.
It'll take it a second to come up.
We're going to go ahead and create a project inside of here and we're
going to start with just a very simple project.
We're not going to choose any of the preconfigured ones for us because we
want to demonstrate the simplest example we can. Okay,
now that our application's up I want to go ahead and
click File, New, and just choose Project.
Don't choose any of the other ones, just a simple project. Underneath
there we can click Project again and click Next.
We're going to give it a name of HelloWorld, and click Finish.
Now that this is up we can go ahead and right‑click on
our project and choose New, File.
And we want to call this pom.xml.
We'll select Finish. And Spring STS is going to try and convert this to a
project for us and so it's going to try and download plugins on the back end
and figure out what we want to do with our POM file.
Now we have our empty pom.xml file.
We can go ahead and start adding elements inside of here,
and there's five things that we need.
We're going to start by giving it our outermost element of project And
when we close that off it will automatically put the closing tag in
there for us. It's one of the nice features of using an IDE like this.
We'll start with adding the groupId.
And you can tell it's already identified that I'm in a XML
file, and specifically I'm in a Maven POM file so it's going
to start suggesting tags for me.
Let's start by adding our groupId.
And since this is for Pluralsight we're going to do com.pluralsight.
If your business was abc.org, you would put in org.abc.
Next thing we'll add is our artifactId. And inside of here
it's just the name of what our application's going to be,
so we'll call it HelloWorld.
The next thing we want to add is the version of our
application that we're writing.
So we're just going to type version.
And we want to call this 1.0‑SNAPSHOT. And SNAPSHOT is all caps. Versions
have a specific naming convention that we want to follow,
and for this example we're going to do 1.0‑SNAPSHOT.
The next thing we need to add is a version of our model for
this POM. So we're going to do modelVersion.
We want to choose 4.0.0.
This has honestly always been 4.0.0 since I've ever used Maven. It does
refer to this type of project that we're building.
I'm not aware of anybody using anything else outside of that.
Then we want to choose our packaging of type jar.
So we can save this. And now we can right‑click on
our project and say New, Folder.
Now,
even though we're just doing a folder it's going to try and
start treating this like a Java application. And we're
going to build that out later.
We can also add another folder underneath our src folder of main. And this is
named specifically the way that it is because this is the default for Maven.
And we're going to do one more folder of java.
So src/main/java is the directory structure that Maven is
looking for in regards to our class files.
So now we can right‑click on src/main/java and do New, File again.
And we can call this HelloWorld.java. And it's going to
start trying to compile things for us.
So we are going to get an error that pops up as we're doing
this that it wants to add it to a working set.
We're just trying to get the simplest file that we can
working so don't worry about that.
We want to call this public class HelloWorld {. And then we
want to add a method in here of public static void main and
pass in an array of strings,
String arg. And then we're going to put a System.out.println on here, and
this will give us an error when we try to add this. Out.println. It
really wants to compile our application for us.
We're going to just print out Hello World and then add our semicolon on the end.
And that is it for what we need for our application.
Let's save this file.
We're going to go back out to our command line,
and we're going to cd to \dev\workspace.
And underneath here you will see that we have our HelloWorld project.
So we're going to cd into that HelloWorld project.
And now we can start off with our first Maven command.
We want to run mvn clean. And I will tell you that the first time
you run this it's going to go out and download a bunch of plugins
and dependencies from the Maven repo.
So all this stuff that's rolling off your screen,
it's downloading all this stuff for the first time.
So it successfully ran the clean command. And all clean
does is initialize your directory structure and delete any
previously generated files.
So it's cleaned up our directory and set everything up for us to run it
now. The next thing we want to do is type mvn compile.
And, as you might guess, this is going to compile our source code for us.
So if we type mvn compile it will go out and also download more
dependencies and other plugins that are out there. And you'll notice
some brief pauses every now and then. That's it going out and checking
against versions of current things out there, pulling new repos down,
new locations of files. So Maven's going out and checking all of those
dependencies and versions that we have for the configuration we
currently have.
Once this is done downloading all of those plugins it will
then have compiled our source code for us and we can go in
and run that Java application.
And this only happens the first time you run it.
That's the beauty of Maven, it will only download
what it needs when it needs it.
The unfortunate thing is the first time you run it it
does download a lot of plugins for you.
We ran our build, but you'll notice we got an error.
This is actually an update for this course, and Maven changed a few things that
it will no longer build with just the default source option.
So we need to actually add a section to our POM file. Let's go talk about that right now.